Hello and welcome to another fiscal simulation lecture where we're going to be talking about how in
setting up this movement component for our car.
Now I just want to show you that previously you were able to run straight through the wall and in the
subjects This lecturer is making sure that we can stop when we hit the wall but also that we can reverse
back away from it.
Without that taking an age.
So going to be talking about how that's achieved how we can figure out that we're actually going to
hit something and that we can update velocity's based on that so let's dive in and see that in action.
So in the last lecture we did get our car to the point where it was accelerating with a physically based
force.
But we also noticed the problem where if we run into a wall we do not stop.
Now we want to set it up so that we can stop if we hit the wall and we know that the first step of that
process is setting up some collision volumes or misspell that.
Let me correct that.
There we go.
So setting up a collision volumes how do we do it.
Let's have some quick revision.
I'm going to go and do this in blueprint.
Now obviously you can do this or with default subcomponents and setting up all that stuff in C++.
But let's be realistic this the kind of work that a designer would do and they're more likely to do
it in blueprint so let's just take the easy route this time I'm going to go to the ADD component button
on AB BP go cart and I am going to go ahead and search for collision and I'm going to look for the box
collision because that's what I think most accurately fits around this car.
So I'll add in a box Collider.
And in fact what I'm going to do is I'm going to rip parent the scuttle mesh to the box and I'm going
to try and replace these seen Roots with the box just by clicking and dragging the box on to the scene
room.
And that has worked successfully So I've now got a box which is too small as we can see so I'm going
I need to scale it up in the details paint so in the details pain we've got our box extent we can use
that to scale the x axis.
We can use it to scale the y axis to do that.
Try attempt to do that.
They go scaled the y axis too and we can scale the z axis.
Now you'll notice that the car is not in the centre of this box so we're actually at a fix that because
we can't change the route object in the component hierarchy but we can change the position of the skeletal
mash.
So we're going to move the whole thing down a notch to the scuttle mash and then you can see that the
box isn't quite tall enough so we need to scale it in z a little bit more so that it encompasses fully
or at least more or less the whole car angle the wing mirrors.
But that shouldn't matter too much if the wing mirrors pass through something so we got ourselves a
collision set.
I'm going to save and compile and go ahead and play and let's see whether that has done anything to
prevent us from going through the wall.
No.
No it hasn't.
And I wasn't expecting it to.
So one thing we have to check first is go on to that collision component and we're going to go down
in the details.
Payne to the section on collision and one thing that we do want to do here is select a different collision
preset the moment we have overlap all dynamic which is clearly not what we want to do.
We want to block all dynamic and commands save and go ahead and hit play and let's see whether it works.
I'm still not expecting it to work but I might be wrong.
Let's see.
Sure enough it doesn't work.
And the reason for this is that when we're moving our car we're not actually checking anything about
collision.
We're doing this.
And actor offset translation.
And okay that's all well and good but we do want to check for collision.
We're moving it.
And fortunately this is built right into in real with a concept known as sweeping.
If we go and have a look at the definition of ADD actor offset at an actor her world offset and go and
follow that you'll see that it takes a Delta location which we understand now.
But it also takes a boolean that says be sweep.
In fact if we go over to the head a file of this actor cvp go to the actor H.
And look for ADD actor world offset.
You can see we've got the Delta location and will XYZ you show me any default parameters.
That's because this is a k-2 function for some reason it's like I think it's the blueprint 1 basically
But the defaults for an actor world offset are that the sweep is false.
What does suite mean.
It means that it checks first of all that we can reach the destination without going through anything
that we should be colliding with.
That sounds like exactly the sort of thing we want.
So let's make sure that we're doing that.
I'm going to go in to my go cart dot cbp and just make sure that the second argument given to an actor
world offset is true.
So go ahead and save that and build and see whether Now we're going through the wall or not.
Okay so the build was successful Let's go over into a real and hit play and see if our car is moving
as we'd expect.
So let's go and accelerate into a wall.
Yes you do and go and hit said Wall.
Boom.
Now we're not going anywhere.
So let's reverse out of here.
And you'll notice if you reverse and hit the back button you aren't actually reversing very quickly
you're going to have to hit that back button for quite a long time before it starts going back.
Now that's a little bit odd isn't it.
So something is not quite set up correctly there.
And if you think it through what we've been doing here is we've been adding to the velocity and when
we hit of a wall that velocity variable is still there we're just not passing through the wall because
an actor world offset is preventing us from enacting the translation that the velocity would like.
But the velocity still trying to move us all that time we're not resetting the velocity to zero when
we hit a wall which means that we try and reverse away from the wall.
We have to accelerate all of that velocity nonofficial term by the way unaccelerated is not an official
term.
We need to get rid of all that excess all that velocity by accelerating in the opposite direction i.e.
reversing and then we start going backwards so you got quite a lot of velocity of can take quite a long
time and it's clearly not very realistic.
So we're going to need to reset the velocity on collision.
So there is a thing that is quite helpful here in the ad actor world offset.
You can see it in the definition.
It actually has an out parameter and optional out parameters so it's actually a pointer because by default
it is null and that is for an F hit result.
And you can get hold of the F hit result for anything that was hit during the process of going trying
to move this object through the world so you can use that to try and figure out whether anything was
hit and whether.
You need to be resetting the velocity.
Okay.
So let's see that in the form of a challenge reset the velocity that's going to be your challenge for
the lecturer to read up on the F hit result as a first port of call.
You in to find out what the hit result has to offer you and you going to use it to check if there was
a collision.
By the way I've got the resource link against the lecturer for a hip result.
In case you don't want to google for it so check if there was a collision.
Using the have hit result and then reset the velocity.
If there was a hit test it obviously and then once it works just refactor for clarity the tick function
like be getting a bit heavy and you might want to pull out some things into different methods so pause
a video and have a go at the challenge.
Okay welcome back.
So let's have a go at this challenge.
Here is the documentation for the struct f hit.
Result.
Let's have a look at what we can use here to give us an indication of whether or not we have hit anything.
One thing I'm noting here is we've got time and this time is actually I just want to make a note of
this.
Time is in quotes here in the description because it's the time of impact.
Along the trace direction ranging from 0 to 1 meaning that if you hit it half way along your your movement
then it will give you a point 5.
If you don't hit anything it will be 1.
And if you hit something straight away or you are already hitting something it will be zero.
So that could potentially be used for well let's see if there's anything else in the functions that
could be of use to us.
Here's one is valid blocking hit return true if there was a blocking hit that was not caused by starting
in penetration.
So if we already were penetrating and a blocking object then is valid blocking hit would not be true.
But if we because of this movement hit something then it will be true.
That's what I'm going to use.
Is valid blocking hit but first to get rid get hold of.
Sorry at f hit result so usual way with out process we're gonna have an out f hit result which I am
going to call the hit which we're going to declare in this scope in the tic's go up and then we are
going to get to the address of it.
Remember that we are dealing with a pointer here not a reference.
We often deal without parameters as being references.
In this case because it's an optional out parameter it's actually a pointer.
So this just means that we need to take the address of hit when we're passing it into an out sweep hit.
Result.
So that's what we're gonna do.
And then once we have done that we can put in an IF statement to check where that hit is valid so whigham
DO hit.
Dot is valid blocking hit which will allow us to know whether we actually hit something in this particular
movement frame.
And if we did hit something what are we going to do about it.
Well as I said already we are going to set our velocity down to zero.
That is the point of said challenge let's go ahead and build that and see whether it's what we want.
One problem I can already see here in the red squiggly to pointed out is that I am setting of a vector
velocity to zero and obviously is zero is a float.
In this case so we want a vector zero.
There's a few ways of creating this but f vector calon colon zero vector I think it is.
Come on calon zero vector.
Yep is going to give you a vector with all zeros basically.
So let's go ahead and build that again.
Now without having me that little error and we'll see if it works as we intended.
Okay so that has compiled at least successfully.
Let's go and play and see whether it actually implements successfully.
So I will go and accelerate towards a wall again.
So much fun.
We're going to hit the wall not go anywhere and if we reverse instantly reversing which means the velocity
has indeed been reset to zero.
So while we're at it let's just spend a little time to refactor that tic function which is starting
to grow rather large.
And we've got some clear bits of functionality in here.
So remember that in a refactoring what we're looking for is trying to keep a consistent level of abstraction.
Now what we're doing here intake is we're doing the kind of physical simulation and we want to check
that this level of abstraction is being maintained.
I think that this firstline line is a little bit.
It's small enough so it's okay but it's a little bit low level abstraction because we're talking about
one particular force.
There could be many forces on this car and there will be later on.
So we'll talk about we'll probably build that out a little bit into things like this into functions
later on.
But not yet.
Then we have got acceleration.
That's pretty high level.
We're talking about the physical simulation So acceleration is force over mass that's pretty high level.
Definitely within the realms of the physical simulation then we've got velocity plus velocity times
acceleration.
Yes that makes sense then we've got translation.
Yes that also makes sense.
And then we have got this final hit resolve and movement and translation which is a little bit more
finicky a little bit smaller.
So I actually think this whole section included the translation is about applying the velocity to the
object and actually moving the object.
So let's abstract that out into a function.
Now I'm going to use visual studio tool for that.
You can obviously do this completely manually so I can go to quick actions and refactoring And by right
clicking and then I can go to extract function which is always says as an experimental feature and we
can go ahead and give a name.
You know make it super clear what this does that it updates location from velocity's.
That's what I call it update location velocity.
Go ahead and click.
Okay I do want it below the current function.
I want it as a member function not as a free function because I wanted to have access to velocity.
And let's go ahead and click okay.
Notice it has to automatically pass in Delta time as now will talk a bit more about the signature.
Once it has created it and that is the result of having created it you can see that we're now calling
update location from velocity passing in Delta time and we've created that function update location
velocity and it does create a translation.
It gets our hit results.
It moves the act resets the velocity to zero.
If we've hit something I'm fairly happy that at that level of extraction is good within tic.
I can read tic fairly easily now and if we go into our head of file we can see where it's gone and crace
that it created it as a public function so I'm going to cut it and paste it in to the private functions
because we don't want other classes updating our location from velocity we want to be able to do it
only ourselves and only from within tick.
So let's go ahead and build and check that that's still working.
I'm fairly sure that that refactor will have worked just fine.
So you can go ahead and check as well.
That's a bit of homework for you but I will see you in the next lecture where we will be talking about
getting this car to steer left and right.
So had some actual pretty useful functionality for a car really just being able to run into walls.
It does not make a racing game very fun.
Okay so I will see you in the next lecture.